## Events:

- An Event is core Part any Application. 
- without event any application is usless.
- Events are needed to make applicaton interactive.
- The Events Click, DoubleClick, MouseMove, select key type etc. help to achive this.
- for this purpose we need tp handle this events.

## Deligation Event Model.
- The Deligation Event Model is Defined as Standard background Mechanism to generate Event .
- the mechanisum of Deligation Event Model is An Event is Generated by Some Source and Event is send to multiple Listners.
-        Event Source     <-- |
             |                | Resister
             |             |--|
             |creates      |
             |             | Invokes
         Event Object      |
             |             |
             |             |
             |             |
        Listerner Object <-|
             |
             |Implements
             |
         Listerner Interfaces.

# Event:
- An Event is action performed on any source.
- Event result in change of state of source.
- Hence Event is Also Called Change of state of any source.
  Eg. By clicking the button, pressiing key, moving mouse etc.

# Source:
- Source is component object on which action is performed.
- A souce can generate more than one type of event.
- It is Necessay that the source must register an event listner in order to generate event.
- Each event has its own resistration listerner.
- Eg. addActionListener

# Listener:
- Listener is the object which gets notified when event is occured.
- They implements some task when the event is occured.
- eg. MouseListener interface defines methods related to mouse click, presses, released, dragged, moved,entered, exits.


## Event Classes:

1. ActionEvent - Generated when a mouse button is pressed.  MenuItem is Selected on list item.
2. ItemEvent - Generate when a checkbox or list items is selected, diselected.
3. KeyEvent - generates when key is pressed, released
4. MouseEvent- generate When Mouse is Moved, clicked, dragged etc
5. TextEvent- Generate when Text inside the textfield or textArea is changed.
6. WindowEvent- Generate When Window is activated, deactivated, closed, opened, iconified, deiconifed.
   
   